the five steps to demand generation
[Music]
success welcome back to a fresh episode
of Breaking B2B I'm your host Sam
Dunning and if you want to join
thousands of Legends enjoying my daily
newsletter checking out past podcast
episodes or to apply to work with us
head over to Breaking B2
b.com so today I've got George kares
joining me George's host over at the B2B
Playbook we're going to be diving into
the five steps to demand gen's success
talking about things like should every
B2B company regardless of your
service-based or tech-based dive into
demand gen George's five-step
framework and how you can get EXA Buy in
to get a demand gen campaign rolling
with a bunch of actional tips so with
that George welcome to the show sir how
are
we thank you Sam very very well
congratulations on two fronts first of
all for pronouncing my last name
correctly you actually nailed it and
second of all for your Rebrand breaking
B2B it's awesome I love it I'm right
behind it appreciate it man it's very
kind of you to say and looking forward
to you sharing your wisdom with myself
the audience and diving in so with that
we've had a bunch of demand gen folks on
the show over the years we haven't done
an episode specifically on it in a long
time so as a bit of a refresh I know
everyone's got their take on what demand
generation actually means I'd love to
hear yours George to kick things off on
maybe a one or two line of what what the
flip is to man Jen in your perspective
yeah yeah definitely look I mean some
will Define demand generation as lead
generation activities others are
shifting a little bit more towards uh
branding but for me demand generation is
a goto Market strategy that builds an
intense desire in your dream customer to
purchase from
you it's comprised of two parts demand
creation and demand capture capturing
demand is targeting that 3% of the
market that is ready to buy from you
right now and creating demand it's about
building relationships with the 97% of
the market that isn't in buy mode right
now but it's all about getting them to
know like and trust you so when they are
ready to buy they come to you over the
competition very sustin love that so
with that setting the scene is demand
generation something that every B2B
company should be looking at regardless
of where they're at IE startup or more
mature established
company look I I would say yes everyone
should look at it but how much time and
how many resources you pour into it will
depend on what phase you're at and the
kind of business that you're in so look
most business businesses when they start
out going to be trying to capture that
demand that's out there already so
trying to find those companies that 3%
of the that are in that 3% of the market
that are ready to buy right now the ones
who are actively buying and so you know
they're doing outbound they're doing
things like running Google ads they're
doing all these things to try and Target
these people who are looking to buy
right now and that's absolutely where
they should be focusing their attention
on people who are ready to by right now
because if we don't have customers then
like what the hell are we doing as a
business particularly in that early
phase but the earlier you can start
appealing to that 97% of the market and
getting them to know who you are what
you stand for why you're actually a
fantastic fit for them the better off
you're going to be as you scale so I've
worked inhouse a number of times uh my
bread and butter was Performance
Marketing which means capturing
demand like I thought I was a I thought
I was a legend at it I thought I knew
everything about marketing to be honest
like running Performance Marketing I
thought I was the king I thought I could
put a dollar in get a150 out every time
and scale to the moon but I was pretty
humbled on quite a few occasions Sam um
just over time uh initially having
fantastic traction acquiring customers
for a great cost per lead a great cost
per
acquisition and then inevitably as we
went to scale more we needed more volume
and the more we scaled the more
competitive things became the more our
costs went up and the harder it got to
scale sustainably because we're just
competing for the same basically like
the same size of the market except we're
trying to take more of it it's like you
have a set size of the pie and you're
trying to take a bigger and bigger slice
but guess what so are your competitors
so
yeah you have to be able to scale beyond
that 3% and that's when I really started
learning I think about a more holistic
encompassing demand generation strategy
which is let's look to that other 97%
too and Sam I've actually got one more
uh piece of research which I love
referencing which I think really Nails
um that point home on why we need to get
in front of that 97% and it's some
research out of banon company and they
basically say
that 80% of
vendors will not consider you as an
option if they haven't heard about you
before they start looking for a
solution so if I'm in the market for SEO
services and I decide this morning you
know what I'm going to start googling uh
SEO services and breaking B2B comes up
this statistic This research shows that
we will not consider breaking B2B unless
we had had heard about them
before so it's not only that 3% of the
market that's available to you it's
actually a much smaller component it's
something like 6% which is why it's like
trying to find a needle in a hay stack
and it's why important to get in front
of people as early as you can in the
journey got it so there's there's a few
points that I'd be interested to break
down before we dive into your 5bs
framework to get success with demand gen
so you said something interesting there
about your own experience and I've been
much the same George right when I've
worked at different companies and I've
thought I can Splash a ton of cash into
paid media whether that's sponsored ads
paid search or different forms of
thinking yeah month one month two the
leads are flowing we're getting some
sales in and then from my experience
anyway when you solely rely on paid as a
channel it seems to go up and down and
you seem to have Peaks and troughs and
it's it's not really sustainable like
you say but something you said
interesting was as you scale demand gen
becomes more relevant more important
which totally makes sense right so let's
let's pretend we're in a mature market
so we're in a we're in a category that's
known so for me that's SE on websites
people know that category exists for
someone else that might be CM category
or whatever it is so we're in a mature
Market people know what we do the
chances are to start with that 3% that
are in Market to buy could be a lot of
people even if we're in a very Niche
specific sector so in the CRM space
let's say we focus specifically on
accounting companies that are CRM that
3% could still be thousands and
thousands of businesses that are after
what we need but as we grow and as we
scale I suppose that amount of in Market
potential buyers potential clients get
smaller and smaller as we become bigger
and we start capturing all that demand
whether that's with SEO paid search
other channels so then that's when
demand gen kind of getting in front of
those prospects educating them on the
problems we solve how we help Etc is
more important is that fair yeah yeah
that's that's absolutely fair to say uh
look as I said in those initial stages
you want to be capturing as much demand
out there as possible but inevitably
it's not even so much about that you
going to run out of customers that are
there to buy from you it's when you
start out capturing demand people
typ uh start like with you know
targeting longtail Searchers so people
try and Niche their business down as
much as possible
to appeal to a small segment so we're
not trying to compete with the big fish
you know it's I suppose like what
HubSpot tried to do to take on um
Salesforce initially positioning
themselves as marketing automation
software it's like what pipero did to
try and find their position in the
market too positioning themselves as the
CRM for
salese uh you you really want to try and
uh I I
suppose if you go down down that path uh
it becomes very very important at some
stage to scale Beyond it and people are
going to be targeting those High intent
keywords uh which are
longtail but you're going to run out of
those people that are searching you know
CRM systems for salese you're going to
be running out of those people that are
searching CRM for marketing Automation
and at that point you start actually
bidding on and competing for more
generic terms terms that are a bit wider
that aren't as Niche for you and that's
where the costs start getting out of
control and that's when you start
bidding on and trying to compete for
people that might not be your ideal
clients and that's where you start to
run into trouble got it so with that
setting the scene let's dive into if you
can share George your F step Beast
framework and I would love to get stuck
into the five key foundational points
and share some practical tips as we
go yeah for sure so it's our 5B
framework for demand generation uh in
particular probably has a heavier
emphasis on demand creation because we
think there's just not a lot of
information around how to do that in a
systematic way so the first B is what we
call be ready and that's all about
really truly deeply understanding your
customers so you need to know who your
best customers are you need to really
understand their pain points understand
who the buying committee is what their
buying Journey looks like where they
hang out online and offline who
influences them in their purchasing
decisions it's then incredibly important
particularly in the saturated Market as
we just referenced for marketers to
really pos position their brands as a
total no-brainer in the mind of their
dream customer so using that kind of big
fish small pond method of positioning is
a really great way of doing that so
again we use that example of how pipe
Drive positioned themselves as the CRM
for salespeople
that is a great example of that uh so be
ready is really about getting those
foundations and for a lot of marketers
what that looks like in a lot of
businesses it's about again defining who
those best customers are uh
understanding them as deeply as possible
and setting that really firm foundation
for the second stage which is what we
call be helpful before we get on to that
did you have any any questions there at
all Sam yeah so I don't want to make I
mean some of this stuff we've covered
with guest like Ryan Paul Gibson that I
know you've had on your show as well
when it comes to B2B customer research
and we've had other folks kind of want
how to define your your best customers
understanding kind of their buying
journey and their buying habits and all
that kind of things but are there any I
suppose any lesser known tips George
that you recommend when it comes to
defining your idal fit
clients and their buying habits or
Journeys any I guess high level points
that we should consider on that step
one uh I suppose this begins with that
8020 rule applying that to your business
so which uh 20% of customers are driving
80% of the output and that might not be
Revenue it's about like driving forward
what's most important to your business
at that point in time so
for business it might be like potential
for growth uh it might be uh a business
that is more profitable or a particular
segment of the market that's more
profitable than another so really making
sure that you do that work and actually
sitting down with leadership and sales
to say okay like based on the data who
are our best customers and if you
actually go ahead and you survey each of
the different departments and ask them
chances are you're going to get really
different answers like typically you
know uh developers they hate Enterprise
because Enterprise always wants so many
things like custom built but Sal people
might like it because the commissions
are really really great you know you get
really different answers and see you
need to come to a consensus not just
from running the data on your own but
actually having that conversation with
everyone and uh yeah we find when people
go through that process it actually
initiates a much much bigger
conversation that the business needs to
have that's so true actually just
thinking about businesses I've been
involved in sometimes what you think are
the best categories or sectors that you
worked with when you actually look at
the data I what was the most profitable
what was the quickest turnaround time
who were the easiest to work with it's
sometimes quite the opposite to what you
think in your head so until you crunch
that with the rest of your team look at
the Hard facts and look at the data and
also discuss with your team kind of what
it was like working with them it's it's
quite interesting what comes up I
found a and pulling sales and Leadership
into this process too of you know sales
have the most time with customers and
ideally you get to speak to those
customers yourselves but you know if
you're taking those insights from sales
like Loop them in in as much of this as
possible because this demand generation
process works best when marketing and
sales are on the same page so I think
taking them on the journey right from
the very beginning is a really great
place to set yourself up for
Success any core points when you say
best
customers in my head that that would
drive things like Drive the most
profitable revenue or enjoyable to work
with and we can kind of deliver well and
fairly quickly what would you say the
core points that kind of stuff or a bit
more yeah definitely and you know can we
nail it down to a particular industry or
segment and if so if we were going to
Target more people like this because
that's the goal like how big is that
market so making sure that it's big
enough to hit your goals for the next
you know six 12 months whatever it might
be ensuring that it's it's a big enough
market for you to do that yeah um I
think it's incredibly important too so
working backwards from business
goals I think is something that people
really need to do when conducting that
exercise nice that's be ready what was
step two
sir uh be helpful so be ready was about
setting those foundations deeply
understanding the customer step two is
about being helpful so that's now we've
defined and understood that audience
we're going to try and develop
relationships with them with the buying
committee with really helpful and
educational content so this content I
think should genuinely try and make your
dream customers lives better it's not
product Focus content but it really
helps them in their role it should be
educational and it should be
entertaining uh I suppose it's exactly
what we're trying to do with the B2B
Playbook ideally even before people work
with us we want to make marketing
managers lives easier we want them to do
better in their job uh before they get
to that point where they're ready to
work with us
uh so I mean it's really really
important in this stage to I think have
your content driven by true subject
matter experts you know buyers are
really smart if you're getting a Content
done by a freelancer I think that just
doesn't fly anymore you know especially
when it's like you're trying to Market
to engineers and you have the in-house
marketer or a freelancer who's never
been an engineer trying to write a
technical Pace like that's never ever
going to land with them um so making
sure you have subject matter experts
doing that and making sure that it's
mapped to our favorite framework uh for
Content called the five stages of
awareness it's really the best content
framework that we found that very
closely aligns with people's buying
Journey it takes someone from being
unaware that they even have a problem
that you can help them with to being led
to the logical conclusion that you're
the perfect solution for them and then
it's about Distributing that content as
much as possible like leaving that
information for people so they can take
their own Journey it's still deliberate
in the way that you're doing it you've
still got that content to answer their
question at every stage but you're
making it available to them uh to
consume in their own time gotcha so when
it comes to creating helpful and
educational content your idea of what
that means might be completely different
to mine have you if any business is
thinking quite like the sound of this
demand genen and I think we should start
getting front of our best customers that
we've defined from step one of be ready
I want to start putting out some some
content some media that's going to be
helpful in education to those Target
prospects what's the best place to get
started in your
view I I think we actually really align
with this so it it's towards the end of
the journey so people who what you would
call like product aware or most aware uh
people are actively looking for
Solutions so that's when you want to get
together um your comparison pay Pages
your case studies your social proof all
that stuff that shows like why you're
the best fit for someone that answers
any doubts any objections that they
might have and that gives them that
final nudge to take that action is where
we would recommend people start because
we're targeting people who are probably
somewhat familiar with your brand right
uh and considering you against other
people and then we would again make our
way further up the funnel which is where
we're looking at solution aware content
which is targeting people who are
starting to explore and evaluate
different solutions and then eventually
we would Target people who are problem
aware so at this point they're just kind
of exploring like what this problem even
is that you help them solve and all the
different ways to solve it like if
someone you know wants to solve the
issue of demand generation in their
business they could try and do SEO they
could hire a freelancer they could uh
hire someone else in house or they can
come to us the BB incubator and train up
someone in house to help them do it
there's so many different ways of
approaching that problem and so having
content that helps guide them through
that is really important too all the way
up to the top where someone is unaware
and they don't even know that demand
generation is an issue for their
business give me a quick idea George of
yeah we are rign starting bottom of the
funnel kind of people most likely to be
ready or close to ready in to investing
in your offer when it comes to that
bottom of the funnel opportunities how
are you targeting them from a demand gen
perspective are you doing like a
retargeting play where you see people
that have visited your website and maybe
key Pages like pricing alternative page
multiple times and then you're serving
them ad say on LinkedIn that relate to
that or have you got a slightly
different approach to kind of targeting
those bottom of the funnel most likely
to buy prospects first yeah yeah that's
right so we'll look at uh
retargeting and use that as a method
we'll also look at identifying companies
based on reports from like clear bit so
getting the anonymous people that we
haven't identified seeing which
companies are visiting key Pages
expressing intent and then we'll upload
those as like a company list pardon me
to try and get as many impressions in
front of them of these uh of this key
information that reflects where they are
in their Journey um we do still push
them content that's like further up the
funnel as well because hey people Bounce
Around in different states of awareness
yeah yeah yeah makes sense and any ideas
in terms of when you're going higher up
the funnel perhaps folks that never
heard of our brand but we believe they
fit our Target client Persona sectors
Etc they defin in stage one what are you
doing when it comes to kind of targeting
and serving them
content yeah yeah so I mean look on the
organic side um basically we just try
and cycle through those five stages of
awareness throughout the week Monday
starts at unaware Tuesday problem aware
Wednesday solution aware and so on and
so we're just giving everyone the
opportunity to consume where they are at
different stages because you can't
control it as you pointed out when
you're using paid media you have a bit
more of an idea as to where someone
where someone is in that phase
um sorry would you mind repeating that
that question one more time Sam I just
lost my train of thought yeah yeah we
good so saying essentially folks that do
not know our company yet but are
basically we believe they fit our target
market like idal customer profile in the
segments and sectors and businesses we
like to serve and that we want to be
doing business with that we Define in
stage one you mentioned some channels
there I was just wondering what you
recommend when it comes to getting in
front of those folks um because they're
probably not that likely to buy for the
foreseeable future but we want to start
educating them and serving them some
helpful content just how we can get
started on that play
yeah yeah so I I I guess I kind of cover
what we would do on the organic side
which is really cycling through those
five stages of awareness but if you're
targeting those audiences that I suppose
you would say are cold to you they're
unaware of you um it would be about
getting that unaware problem aware and
solution aware content in front of them
and so that's content that is going to
lead them on that journey to
realizing that this is a problem really
worth addressing and and getting them to
start exploring some solutions got as to
that Target list that you might be
working with I know some people like to
go quite Broad and that certainly works
on platforms like meta but I think when
it comes to LinkedIn and B2B we like to
go quite narrow look for other signals
that indicate these people would be a
good fit that they are more likely to
enter the market than someone else
rather than starting with like an
audience of 50,000 people running a few
ads to them and hoping someone clicks it
to then retarget them I mean this is B2B
like we've we've got to get in front of
people like a bunch of times to even
make them care about what we're
selling the yeah Messi as as you like is
is B2B that's for sure there's never a
linear path to buying certainly in the
few years that I've been in the game for
any any Scrappy startups George often
like to give advice for perhaps there's
marketers that are maybe a team of one
or team of two maybe they're
bootstrapped or maybe they've got very
limited funds to work with when it comes
to doing some of that early stage stuff
you've mentioned kind of creating early
stage problem aware content that kind of
shares this is the juicy problem we fix
and this is kind of a bit more about how
you can start doing yourself or thinking
about doing yourself or why you should
be aware of it and the implications of
the problem whatever how do you
recommend folks go about implementing
that in a way that's going to be best
use of their time because I appreciate
when you've got channels like LinkedIn
organic LinkedIn paid meta and more
could be podcast could be YouTube so
many options when it comes to actually
creating that media and distributing it
have you found any way for starting
let's say on a lightweight scale but
it's going to have impact that's worked
quite
well yeah yeah absolutely so we actually
ran an experiment like this in public
where we ran ads for ourselves for the
very first time using the exact
framework that you know we use when we
work with other businesses and the goal
is of course to try and get a return as
soon as possible uh when you're a small
team and you're just investing in a
channel you want to see that return
um so we had really what started out is
just a $500 investment and we made a
very targeted list of people who had
interacted with our assets on LinkedIn
or interacted with our website had
showed a lot of there uh uploaded that
list of companies and then we showed
them that product aware most aware
content which was all about you know
this is our program this is who we are
this is how we can help you these are
the results of working with us and this
is why you should take action
now and so because we were targeting a
small audience we were able to get a a
number of Impressions across these
people for a low cost you know we get
getting in front of these people 10
times or so and it proved like very very
fruitful for us like we got a 38 to1 uh
return on ad spend from that experiment
which is fantastic and what that enabled
us to do was then take the money we made
from that and then expand it into
reaching newer less redh hot audiences
uh people who are like cold to lukewarm
and then repeat the process nice cool
man so sorry I would probably just jump
in and say like make sure you have have
something like clear bit installed on
your website get their free report it's
fantastic it will show you which
companies are visiting your site in real
time you can then just scrape that list
of those that are in your ICP you can
cross reference it with people that
might have been following your company
page or viewing you on LinkedIn sales
Navigator viewing your profile whatever
signals you can get that makes you think
these people are in my Orbit get those
and start with those uh don't leave it
up to linkedin's retargeting system like
upload that account list Target their
buying committee Target that
Champion Target that decision maker and
go hard after them there's probably even
some organic stuff you can do with that
right like you can do you can do pay
definitely like you said like that's
that makes perfect sense and I'd imagine
if you continually see a certain company
flagging up on your website and then
maybe you're even connected to let's say
you go after VPS of marketing as one of
your personas and you see that they
flicked on your profile engag with your
content like it makes sense to send them
a direct message right absolutely yeah
and you can test being I suppose like
more direct like hey you know I saw that
you were checking XYZ out you know is
there something I can help you with or
like have a resource that helps them uh
nail down the problem that you've you
know guess that they're trying to solve
um at the end of the day we want to make
contact with these people and so another
great way of doing it I'm sure you've
this used this too Sam is if it's like a
VP of marketing saying like hey we have
this podcast um we'd love to have you on
it and it's a fantastic way to make that
a really warm connection doesn't have to
be a podcast you can be like hey I'm
putting together some market research
we've done that before too and we would
love to speak to you and ask you some
questions about what's happening in the
industry in your business in particular
again another great way uh to develop a
relationship with people good stuff
let's proceed on to stage
three yeah so stage three is be seen so
as a quick recap stage one was be ready
deeply understanding the customer laying
that Foundation stage two is be helpful
which is like let's create really
helpful Ed educational content that Maps
the buying Journey stage three B seen is
about let's just get this in front of
people and make it go faster how do we
accelerate this process of building
relationships with people who we want to
buy from us and that's where paid media
really comes in handy paid media is
there to push this really helpful
content to people who are in our ICP and
are showing signs of potentially buying
from us it's also where we would really
start to take our product ads more
seriously as well so of course we want
to be very helpful in the content that
we're pushing people but at the end of
the day we still got to educate people
on what the benefits are of our product
what are the features that enable that
benefit because at this stage people are
considering that and its features are
important to people at this stage so
making sure that you have product ads
that do that education that reflect the
voice voice of the customer is really
really important in this process and
then taking a bit more of a focused
account-based marketing approach like we
just spoke about Sam and you should do
that no matter I suppose what channel it
is that you're using we spoke about how
you can do it using LinkedIn ads by
uploading a very targeted company list
you can complement that with work on
organic um by doing that by reaching out
to people and dming them and inviting
them on your podcast there's a bunch of
ways of doing that but it's about
identifying people with high intent
and trying to accelerate that demand as
much as possible with whatever channels
you have at your
disposal I like it so yeah more more of
the same of what we're discussing just
now and sounds like also going a bit
more intense on perhaps a product Focus
so giving the that Target Market a bit
more of a detailed look into how that
product is going to help them get done
improve their business whatever that f
is that that's correct and look I know
we discussed some of that stuff in in be
helpful and I think it might have been
because the particular question that we
were discussing but we tend to not talk
about paid ads until be seen until part
three okay because we want to make sure
that people do that work to really
understand their customer that they are
creating genuinely helpful educational
content programs that are mapped to
buying Journeys and then I think for a
lot of people it really clarifies what
role paid media should play in the first
place paid media is to get our stuff
seen by people and and the question is
well what do we want them to see well we
want them to see all the super helpful
stuff that we've developed in Parts one
and two be ready and be helpful and then
of course we also want to start showing
them uh more about our product and
features and so
on this is a a tricky one I'd find it a
tricky question how do you define what
actually is proven helpful or useful
cont content to your ICP how do you know
that it's making an impact and it's it's
doing its job great great question uh so
we look at leading indicators and
lagging indicators leading indicators
they're the ones that are going to tell
you whether or not people actually care
about this if you're marketing to
marketers everyone says self-reported
attribution you know uh people filling
out the how did you first hear about us
form and they're saying people will
mention your content and say oh I heard
you on this podcast or this piece really
um resonated with me on LinkedIn and
that's what made me book a demo the
reality is like most Industries it's
sales they're going to talk to sales and
you have to get sales to ask them like
what made them want to take this meeting
with you and it's there that you're
effectively looking for signs of life
that people are mentioning this really
helpful content so they might say oh
like I first came across you at this it
might even be like a trade show or I
first came across you on LinkedIn or I
follow your founder on LinkedIn or I've
been seeing your ads for the last six
months or whatever it might be that's a
really really key piece but even before
that you can start to look at again
using just clear bits free report are we
getting more people from our ICP to our
website this month compared to last
month and keep track of that if we are
then we know that it's going to be
really a result of that help piece of
content uh I suppose it depends like
what else it is that you're running at
that time but you really just want to be
tracking like are we getting more people
to our assets are more people from our
ICP following us on LinkedIn are they
engaging more with our videos are they
watching more of our videos or less so
if you're chopping
up bits of a subject matter expert uh
running through something on a podcast
and you put that out there are people
watching it to 25% 50%
75% these are all good indicators to
look at as to whether or not we are
actually starting to make an impact and
whether or not people like what we're
doing perhaps you can do a brief case
study examples so I I think I'm quite a
good guinea pig because I've never done
any paid media really on on
LinkedIn so I was thinking as one of our
next experiments as we like to do to Bas
basically boost some of my organic posts
so I've never done like I say really
messed around with it maybe when it
first came out thought leadership ads
for example and never really invested in
company ads certainly not for breaking
btp what would be like the most logical
step for someone like me that's that's
never got into it I a quick win to to
get those ads I suppose in front of some
of these tactics that we've shared to
actually make sure that say I was
working with similar to what you had a
$500 $700 budget should I do exactly
what you said just now or do you think
someone like me should take a slightly
different
approach yeah look I I would do exactly
what we
did because it's it it requires more
work on the front end it's Scrappy but
you're focusing your resources as much
as possible so I don't know if you've
been tracking which companies are
visiting your website I know it's a
newer website so don't know how many
that you have there yep but if you do
have a decent amount and you don't need
a lot like it might be
50 50 really uh 50 companies that fit
your ICP with really high
intent why not Target them with your
product ads with your thought leadership
content that's matched to those five
stages of
awareness Target them with all that
content get in front of them T and days
and see what comes from it reach out to
them because like worst case at that
point where you reach out and you make
contact because I know you're not afraid
to reach out to people and talk to them
Sam you're going to learn a hell of a
lot about why maybe the timing isn't
right or maybe why they are going a
different way and then you just feed
that information back into okay well
let's go again but start with that super
targeted list from that clear bit
visitor report overlap it with with your
ICP you've got great content as well so
you got a lot of people viewing your own
LinkedIn check out through Linkedin
sales Navigator who's been viewing your
profile recently that overlaps with your
ICP cross reference it with that
clearbit list and get people who have
much higher intent and focus on them
nice it's sound advice and I suppose
everything you're you're recommending
George is is useful not just because
yeah you start with the bottom of the
funnel and you work your way up and you
start with prospects or folks that are
most likely to to need what you do but
even if we do all this and some of them
don't come inbound it's positioning your
offer uh or your brand rather as a
helpful company right so even if these
people don't ever have a conversation
with you in the foreseeable future
they've got a good impression of you so
they're like this this company or this
person's been really helpful they've
given me some new IDE they've shared
some stories they've given me some
useful content on media so I suppose it
also opens up opportunities for them to
then recommend you whether that's in
like private communities or when they
speak to their friends face to face so
it's I can only really see good things
coming of it even if the direct Prospect
doesn't actually end up being a customer
yeah absolutely and the more you do this
stuff I mean like for
us this framework isn't a oneandone it's
something you should just go through
again and again for your company like
constantly go back speak to your
customers review who your ICP is review
your helpful content add to it you know
adjust your targeting and all that kind
of stuff and and go through and and do
it again it's it's not it's not a
oneandone process and what you're also
going to be able to do is over time as
you go through and do that you're going
to really be able to
identify what qualities indicate that
someone is in Market versus one that's
not and then that's like one more layer
of targeting that going to be able to
add into your initial list of people so
for example if a uh like a marketing
team grows from one person to two to
three uh that's normally a good
indicator that they need to start
getting a demand generation program
ready in house and so these are more
signals that we can then compile qualify
companies who showing these signals and
add them to our list of people that
we're targeting um to make sure that
we're using our resources as efficiently
as
possible nice let's let's move on to
stage
four yeah look I I think we can go
through stages four and five a little
faster um look stage four is what we
call be better this is really about
optimizing your workflow now that you
have those fundamental 3bs in place it's
where you do things like AB testing you
know CR Advanced content repurposing
Advanced tracking and Reporting email
nurturing you know leveraging crms and
data using partners and Affiliates for
some people partners and Affiliates
might come in earlier um but it's really
about doing those things that once you
have a good set of customers to work off
once you have those fundamentals in
place these are one get what's going to
get you those incremental improvements
over time I think they're actually the
things that marketers think of first
yeah when they talk about marketing yeah
and for us we're used to as well and
then uh there's nothing that makes you
more honest as a marketer than being in
B I think and then we realized that this
stuff needs to come much later after
those
fundamentals ah yeah we see it time and
again and it's like what sometimes when
folks will come to us and they'll say
like I need to improve the conversion
rate on my website or I think I need a
new website redesign because we're not
converting enough leads and then you
look at their traffic and they're
getting like 100 visits per month and
it's like you don't need cro you need
more qualified traffic coming to this
website it's it's not a cro job your
website's just
fine yeah yeah yeah exactly and then
that starts that whole conversation of
well who even are our ideal customers y
right It Go has to go so far back but
how can you build out the right Pages
for people and get them to rank for the
right terms if they don't know who their
ideal customers
are yeah yeah it's it's often the
foundational stuff that that gets
neglected completely agree that was so
that stage four be better and then what
was the last last
step stage five is what we call be the
best and that's where we just went
through like a whole lot of tactics that
we think are normally reserved for big
players in the market we had a bit of
fun with that season and looking at how
can we start to work them into our
marketing as like a small team so things
like
uh you know neuromarketing Neuroscience
you know basically like behavioral
psychology how can we work that into our
everyday marketing to make it even
easier for people to say yes to us so we
covered a range of topics in there but
yeah look the the five Bast framework
very much designed to be worked through
in order um as I'm sure you can see nice
man so for anyone that's been tuning in
and thinking I'd love to put this into
play
but I feel there may be a bit of push
back from management from my exec team
because they've never done it before
they they might not even know what
demand gen is they might think let's say
let's call it the old way whether that's
just relying on paid ads cold
outbound similar campaigns is is all
we've known and done to to grow to date
any tips on getting Buy in with our
influences our exec team and seite yeah
I think you got to speak
their for it um so I know getting byy in
for demand generation programs are a
huge hurdle but you get to present a
business case as to why that is the
right option for you but even before
that you've got to show that why what
you're doing currently the status quo
why that's not
working and and so if you can show them
forecasts of what's going to happen if
you just continue your existing
activities you know that could be like
you cpls or cost per acquisition getting
to levels that are out of control it
could be that you have a very low mql to
SQL rate uh all of that stuff is really
really important to show them and even
going as deep as saying look these leads
that are being sent to sales we're
hitting our mql targets but the
conversion rate is so so low that it's
actually hurting the business and it's
not sustainable for the business because
sales are spending time on these leads
calling them most of them aren't picking
up and the ones who are don't want to
talk to us have no idea who we are so
work with whoever it is that you need to
work with to make that business case you
should have access to your advertising
platforms and data you might need to
speak to sales and you might need to
speak to finance as well to get a real
understanding as to like how much is it
actually costing us to acquire a
customer with our current
strategy so then if we can do that we go
well then what's the alternative what's
the path
forward and then that's when you start
to point to them to the research of look
this this is the way it is
be that's what the research
shows and then sorry can you hear me Sam
yeah you're back now George we lost you
for a second but you're back now oh okay
yeah sorry I was saying after you really
make that that business case
then when you're presenting the path
forward you show
them look this is the way it is because
only 3% of the market is in in is in
Market to buy at any given time that's
what the research shows of that 3% you
have that other research from Bane that
shows eight out of 10 won't even
consider you if they haven't heard about
you and so really what we need to do is
we need to get in front of people before
they're ready to buy
and we need to have a method for doing
that and that's what demand generation
ultimately is and then we're not
proposing to completely overhaul
everything that marketing and sales are
doing say let's create a pilot program
we're going to
pick one segment one marketer one
salesperson and we're going to build out
a pilot program together to essentially
run through the first three Bs of our
5bs these are the leading indicators of
success these are the lagging indicators
that we ultimately want to Che this is
the timeline we expect um it to happen
these are the people resources
investment needed to make that happen
and just make it as painless as possible
for them this stuff can be done on
really a shoestring
budget uh so have that plan in place
make it a no-brainer for them present
the plan very clearly for them yeah yeah
yeah Sound Advice what are your thoughts
on doing something small scale let's say
you get quite a lot of push back what
are your thoughts on doing something
small scale yourself because I'm I can
get away with it so Pro probably so can
you being being founders of our own
business so I'm very much like it's
easier to ask for forgiveness than it is
for permission so if I was a marketer in
an or that was just dead set ideally a
startup that was just dead set against
this I'd probably just start doing
something lowkey myself I I'd make a
list of maybe top 10 accounts and maybe
we're going after CMOS marketing I don't
know CTO whatever probably just start my
own very simple podcast invite them on
and it'll be literally focused on the
niche I how let's say we're we're in um
I guess go back to CRM for accounting
like how to nail account how to na your
CRM is an accountant whatever let's say
something like that and I just started
inviting those folks onto the show and
lowkey just doing that in my own time
build some relationships and prove this
stuff works I think that's how I'd get
by in but I suppose I'm a bit of a rebel
and I like to do my own thing that's why
I run my own business so I can get away
with it what what are your thoughts on
that look I I like it I would do it too
but the reality is uh so many of these
activities that that we've spoken about
in this 5B framework marketers are doing
some version of them already so I I
think all you really need to get a pilot
program off the ground is to align with
one salesperson on just that initial
step of can we together Define just like
who your best customer
are like what's that one segment what's
that list of accounts that we would
really like to go after and can we do
that together and that marketer is
probably already doing things like
creating content they're already
probably doing things like maybe running
some form of account-based marketing or
running some form of paid media yeah um
so it's just a matter of like just
really fine-tuning what they're doing
already and just making sure that the
source that they're dedicating it is to
a market small enough that we can have
an impact with you know the small amount
of resources that we are dedicating to
it um which is why like we can't go and
take on like a whole Market in a pilot
program because like we just don't have
the resources to do it it's about
getting a message in front of people
enough times to build relationships with
them we just got to have enough like
time money resources to do that so work
out what that is Imagine George really
enjoyed the the episode man thanks very
much for sharing your framework making
it actionable providing real examples so
with that please do tell us more about
how on tuning in can learn about the B2B
Playbook your business and anything
you'd like to guide the audience to yeah
definitely look probably easiest thing
is to just Google the BB Playbook or
just go to the BB the BB playbook.com
you can follow me on LinkedIn too George
Karis but Sam you're going to have to
link to that in the show notes because
no one can spell my last name and you
know that's that's
fine but look if you go to the B2B
Playbook find you'll find us there and
um make sure you pick up our 5bs
framework we share it all for free with
everyone um every week it's there for
you to consume a lot of marketers have
taken it for free they've reported back
to us with like fantastic results and
we're really really proud of it so
please go and take it as your
own Legend I'll put all those links in
the show notes below and want to thank
you once again Joy really George really
enjoyed the chat thank you so much for
having me Sam really appreciate it no
worries dude and we got to give a quick
shout out to our sponsors Revenue hero
and factors AI for sponsoring breaking
B2B and as always if you want to join
thousands of Legends enjoying our daily
newsletter past episodes or to apply to
work with us head over to breaking
bb.com and we got to give a big shout
out to you the audience for watching or
listening in today and we'll catch you
on the next episode for more nobs
actionable B2B marketing tips to grow
your business grow your Revenue catch
you on the next
[Music]
one